We created our own hook but I'm not 100 percent happy with it yet.
It works just fine here but later in the course when we update a place we will actually load that data
here from a bank and we will fetch the information about a place from the back end which means it will
not be there instantly when we rendered this component it will take a short while.
This here of course is available instantly but let's also handled the case that this would take longer.
You might think that later when we reach out to a server we use fetched or something like this which
returns a promise and then the then block we can then call use forum to initialize our form with the
then fetch data.
This is not allowed though in react there is a rule when it comes to hooks that they must only be used
directly in your component function.
So you must not use them instead of if blocks instead of loops or instead of other functions including
then blocks.
So you would not be able to call the use forum in a van block and that makes sense because it would
mean that you only set up your hook after the response is there and not when does component first renders.
But of course here during the first render cycle we already need information from our hook from form
state.
So we need to call use form early.
Still I want to update my form values at a later point of time.
Once my response is here and here to simulate this let's just say that we get our identified place only
after use form is called.
Of course we could switch look position here.
But let's imagine that this is not possible because this takes longer to load.
What can we do in that case.
In that case we probably want to initialize this with our invalid values here.
So with empty values and later once we connect us to a backend we will show a loading spinner whilst
we're waiting for a place to load.
So we will not show an empty invalid form.
No worries.
But here.
Let's just say we have some dummy initialization values.
And then here once we got a identified place I want to update my form state.
Now for Dad we need to revisit our form hook and add some functionality that allows us to replace the
values and the validity stored in the form.
For Dad I'll add a new function here which I'll name set for data I will all rapid with use callback
so that it is stored by react and not recreate it unnecessarily.
And then the actual function should take input data and form validity as inputs and then here I want
to dispatch an action which I'll give a type of let's say set data that's totally up to you of course
you can use any identifier you want.
And with that action I want to pass my inputs data so input data stored in the inputs key and my form
is valid data which is that form validity we're getting.
So this is an action we dispatch against our reducer now set form data is then all returned in disarray
so that if we want that we can get it and then here in our reducer we just have to handle that new case
that set data.
Case we just added down their instead of set data.
I want to return a new form state which is basically overriding the existing state hence I will also
not copy the old state.
I will just replace it entirely and there I will set inputs to action not inputs because on my action
here I do have that inputs key and we are all to have that form is valid key and that will be used to
set the overall validity of the form is valid is set to action and then I had form is valid so action
form is valid.
So now we can basically call this set form data function which we exposing here whenever we want a set
of form data so whenever we want to dispatch does action use callback all needs to specify its dependencies.
And here we essentially got none.
So this will never be recreate it does function so we got that in place with that.
Let's go back to update place and get access to set forum data here as well which we can pull out of
the return data as a third element.
Side note in new place I will not get it because there I never need to set any form data.
I only need to get an update place so there.
Now once we got our identified place we want to call set form data and basically initialize our for
now set the overall validity to true.
And here set different values for title and description.
Title will have a value of identified play's title and the validity is true therefore.
And here I have identified place description and is valid is true here as well.
Now calling it like this would be bad though if we call it like this here directly in our component
function it means whenever it is component re renders we set new foreign data whenever we set new foreign
data.
We Indian dispatch does action and therefore we trigger our form reducer and whenever that reducer runs
it produces a new state and whenever it produces a new state even if the data if the state data hasn't
changed it still is technically a new state.
So whenever it produces a new state the component that uses our hook will re render.
So we would have an infinite loop here to a white that we can use a good old friend the use effect hook
we can use use a fact from react and wrap our call to set form data in it so here I have use a fact
and in this function here in the use affect function I want to call set for him data.
Therefore I have two dependencies here set form data and identified place now identified place thankfully
will not change with every rerun or cycle.
That logic will run with every rerun or cycle but we will always find the exact same object the same
object in memory so it will not change and therefore use effect should not trigger again and set firm
data will all not change because in our hook we wrap that with use callback with that if we saved us
and we go to edit you see this is empty now.
You see this is empty and it also never changes.
So something is not working as it should.
Let's see what that is.
So what's the problem here.
The problem is that our hook and our set firm data logic here will work fine but we do have this initial
value and initial a valid prop on the input.
Right now what happens inside of our input component these values are taken to initialize our input
state there.
So that means when the value is assigned to these props change nothing happens in our input component
because only when does is rendered for the first time this initial state is taken into account and thereafter
it does not run again.
So it doesn't reflect any changes to the initial values.
So how can we work around this issue and update place.
We have to defer when we create our form.
So did we only rendered a forum and its inputs when we really got our data for that.
When when we really got our identified placed data.
And once we used that to update our form data.
So that we don't create this forum too early with the dummy fallback data we set up here later.
Once we connected react to our back end this will be easier because then we will be sending a H to the
p request anyways and we will know once this request finished here since we're still kind of working
around a problem which we don't really have.
I'll use a temporary work around which we will absolutely replace later.
I will only return this form here if we do have value for title let's say which is a indicator Dad these
values have been loaded for title and description.
So here I will check if former state inputs title value is a thing and only if it is a thing I will
render this form here and then close to curly brace offered a form and I actually don't need curly braces
for that because it's the start of the return statement anyways.
So now the firm is only rendered if we do we have a titled value or to make this a bit nicer from a
code perspective.
We could also say if we don't have these values or if this is an empty string which is the case in our
initial fallback value we instead return some dummy J as X where we maybe say loading and again we'll
find a better loading solution later but for the moment this should do the trick.
Here I got one extra parentheses.
Let's remove that and with that now when I reload we don't even see the loading state because of course
everything loads instantly here because we're not remaking HDP request but we see we now got our correctly
initialized form data.
The problem we now have is once a clearer D input though it's gone and we see loading because in our
logic whenever we don't have titled value we want to show loading.
So it's maybe not the best fallback we can use it at the moment though because as I mentioned we will
replace it later once we have a real loading state.
We manage with the help of H2 DP as a temporary work around to have a little bit of a better solution.
We can introduce a new state here with use state and name this is loading set is loading.
Use state.
Initially we are not loading let's say or to be precise initially we are loading here and then in use
of fact.
Once we also set our form data of course we're not loading anymore.
So here I will set is loading 2 FALSE.
So initially we are loading.
Then I set it to false.
Once we got our data and down here we can check if we are loading.
In this case I want to show that loading fullback and showed you form otherwise.
Now this works as before but now we can also clear it without removing everything.
So this is our solution for now it's just import to understand that because of the way the input works
and the initial value invalidity is really only used once we have to ensure that we only rendered us
once we got the final values for initial value and initial valid.
And with that we are rendering this update form just fine.
We are able to submit it and have our data there and we are therefore well-prepared here to connect
us to a back end later as well.